Shared Tree: Snapshot compatibility testing APIs (#25861)
microsoft/FluidFramework: .changeset/angry-wings-battle.md

---
"@fluidframework/tree": minor
"__section": feature
---
Schema snapshot compatibility checker

This change adds alpha APIs for snapshotting schemas and testing their compatibility for the purposes of schema migrations.

New APIs:

- `checkCompatibility`
- `parseCompatibilitySchema`

> - `snapshotCompatibilitySchema`

Reviewer: Nit: might be worth adding a very brief description to each of these.

#### Example: Current view schema vs. historical view schema

> At some point in the past, the application author wrote a schema to disk using `snapshotCompatibilitySchema`:

Author: Done. I tweaked the ordering so it is more like a story of what the author's intent is along with the steps they took.

---
"@fluidframework/tree": minor

> "__section": feature

Reviewer 2: We have a tree section which should be used for tree stuff
```suggestion
"__section": tree
```

---
Schema snapshot compatibility checker

> This change adds alpha APIs for creating snapshots of v;iew schemas and testing their compatibility for the purposes

Reviewer: Nit: typo + we use "schema" as the plural of "schema".
```suggestion
This change adds alpha APIs for creating snapshots of view schema and testing their compatibility for the purposes
```

> This change adds alpha APIs for creating snapshots of v;iew schemas and testing their compatibility for the purposes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adds alpha APIs for creating snapshots of view schemas and testing their compatibility for the purposes
```
